Ribbon gls example (#546)
lethe-cfd/lethe: doc/source/examples/incompressible-flow/3d_mixer_using_single_rotating_frame/3d_mixer_using_single_rotating_frame.rst

========================================================
3D Ribbon Mixer using a Single Rotating Reference Frame
========================================================

When designing an industrial mixer, it is essential to evaluate the power consumed by the agitator. To do so, we usually refer to graphs correlating the power number (:math:`N_p`) as a function of the Reynolds number (:math:`Re`). :math:`N_p` is a dimensionless number that relates the power consumed by the agitator to the geometry of the system, the speed of the agitator, and the properties of the material being mixed (density :math:`\rho` and viscosity :math:`\mu`). In this example, using a single rotating frame (SRF) model, we simulate a fluid being mixed in a ribbon mixer for different flow conditions (different values of :math:`Re`) to generate :math:`N_p` vs :math:`Re` curves.

Features
-------------
- Solver: ``gls_navier_stokes_3d`` (with Q1-Q1)
- Steady-state problem
- Displays the use of a single rotating frame (``srf``) when modeling a complex rotating geometry
- Calculation of the power number (:math:`N_p`) using a python script

> - Use of a Digital Research Alliance of Canada (Alliance) cluster to run simulations

Author: I think the idea behind it was to let readers know that this is a first example where we go through step-by-step on how to launch simulations on a cluster and then retrieve the results from it. I might be interpreting the "Features" section wrong.

> - Use of a Digital Research Alliance of Canada (Alliance) cluster to run simulations

Reviewer: Nah your interpretation is correct. I did not see it that way initially, but it's a good idea :)

.. image:: images/eulerian_vs_langrangian_reference.jpg
   :alt: Eulerian and Lagrangian reference frames
   :align: center
   :name: Eulerian and Lagrangian reference frames
   :height: 5cm

In this example, we will start by simulating the case when :math:`Re = 1` and then follow with a simulation for :math:`Re` values ranging from :math:`0.1` to :math:`100`.

The Reynolds number for our system is defined as follows:

.. math::
    Re = \frac{ND^2}{\nu}

where

- :math:`N` is the angular velocity :math:`[\text{rad} \cdot \text{s}^{-1}]` of the agitator;
- :math:`D` is the diameter of the impeller [m], and
- :math:`\nu` is the kinematic viscosity of the fluid :math:`[\text{m}^2 \cdot \text{s}^{-1}]`.

In order to generate :math:`N_p` vs :math:`Re` curves, we have to calculate :math:`N_p`. In this example, we will be using the torque (:math:`\Gamma`) to calculate :math:`N_p` with the following expression:

.. math::

>     N_p = \frac{2 \pi \Gamma}{\rho N^2 D^5}

Author: I've moved it up :)

.. code-block:: text

     mv diff_step_mesh.msh Np_vs_Re

Simulating for a Specific Flow Condition :math:`(Re = 1)`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Launching the simulation is as simple as specifying the executable name and the parameter file. Assuming that the gls_navier_stokes_3d executable is within your path, the simulation can be launched by typing:

.. code-block:: text

    mpirun -np $number_of_CPUs gls_navier_stokes_3d ribbon_gls_Re1.prm

Generating :math:`N_p` vs :math:`Re` Curves :math:`(Re \in [0.1, 100])`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To generate :math:`N_p` vs :math:`Re` curves, we are going to launch simulations for :math:`25` different values of :math:`Re`. In this example, we will be launching these simulations on an Alliance cluster.

.. seealso::

    If it is your first time running simulations from Lethe on an Alliance cluster, you may want to see our installation guide on how to setup and install all the necessary software and modules: :doc:`../../../installation/compute_canada`.

.. _Generating_the_Different_Cases:

Generating the Different Cases
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Using ``lethe_case_generator.py``, we generate the :math:`25` cases with :math:`Re` ranging from :math:`0.1` to :math:`100`. Before running the Python script, it is important to **specify your group account name**, next to ``#SBATCH --account=`` among the job directives of the ``launch_mixer.sh`` script located in the ``template`` folder.

Author: I've added a few sentences, can you see if it's okay?

.. warning::

	In order to run a job on an Alliance cluster, it is required to at least specify the time limit of the job (``-- time``) and your account (``--account``).

> Here are a few examples of other job directives you may want to specify in your job script:

Author: I've added a "warning", can you see if it's okay?

    :class: caution

    If you are having issues with submitting the jobs please return to the :ref:`Generating_the_Different_Cases` subsection and make sure that you added the required information in the ``launch_mixer.sh`` script.

.. seealso::

    For more information on the scheduler and running jobs on an Alliance cluster, you may visit their wiki pages:

    - `What is a scheduler? <https://docs.alliancecan.ca/wiki/What_is_a_scheduler%3f>`_
    - `Running jobs <https://docs.alliancecan.ca/wiki/Running_jobs>`_

Results
--------

Simulating for a Specific Flow Condition :math:`(Re = 1)`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In the ``output`` subdirectory, you will find the ``mixer.pvd`` file that can be visualized using `Paraview <https://www.paraview.org/download/>`_. In the figure below, the velocity magnitude are shown for a flow at :math:`Re = 1`. Because a SRF is used, we can notice the rotational velocity imposed on the walls and the no-slip condition on the ribbon.

.. image:: images/velocity_magnitude.png
   :alt: Ribbon Mixer Velocity magnitude
   :align: center
   :name: Ribbon Mixer Velocity magnitude

> In reality, the velocity field and its streamlines are visualized in an Eulerian frame. It is possible to do so by simply selecting ``velocity_eulerian`` in Paraview.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the reference frame of the tank, the velocity field and its streamlines are visualized in an Eulerian frame. It is possible to do so by simply selecting ``velocity_eulerian`` in Paraview.
```

    .. code-block:: text

        put -r Path/To/Local_Np_vs_Re Path/To/Remote_scratch_directory

Once the transfer is completed, you may exit with the ``exit`` command.

Postprocess Data
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
In order to generate the :math:`N_p` vs :math:`Re` curves, we must first gather all the calculated :math:`\Gamma` from all different cases. You may do so by executing the ``gather_torques.sh`` Bash script. A new ``gather.dat`` file will be generated containing the number of cells and the :math:`\Gamma` components of each simulated case.

.. note::

    In order to run the ``gather_torques.sh`` script, you must make sure that the script is executable. If it is not executable, you may add the permissions with:

    .. code-block:: text

        chmod +x Path/To/gather_torques.sh

After that, you may run the ``plot_Np_vs_Re.py`` Python script to get the figure shown below.

.. image:: images/Np-Re.png
   :alt: Power curve
   :align: center
   :name: Power curve

As you can see, :math:`N_p` decreases when :math:`Re` increases. It is explained by:

.. math::

    N_p = \frac{2 \pi \Gamma}{\rho N^2 D^5} =\frac{1}{Re}  \frac{2 \pi \Gamma}{\mu  N D^3}

> As we can see in the image above, for :math:`Re < 10` (laminar regime), the Lethe curve fits well with the experimental values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As we can see in the image above, for :math:`Re < 100` (laminar regime), the Lethe curve fits well with the experimental values.
```

> References

Reviewer: I would add a possibility for extension to suggest simulating it at a higher Reynolds number in a transient simulation and compare with the experimental data :).
